---
layout: post
title: Course 2: Chameleon Instance Creation
categories: cloud-dashboard
author: 
description: We go over the details of creating a simple Chameleon instance using the Chameleon dashboard.
---

  

* * *

#### Course 2: Chameleon Instance Creation #

* * *

Let’s assume you know why you would want to use a VM, as in what app or purpose you have in mind. You can make your own determinations as to what you might need as far as compute power, storage, and networking requirements including bandwidth. After determining and designing what it is that you need exactly, you can begin creating those assets in your chameleon cloud dashboard. 

First, check the project button to make sure you are working on the correct project. Do this by going to the top green bar on the left hand side and selecting the button just to the right of the chameleon name. You will select the project you desire to work on from the drop down list. 

Creating instances is easy, but first you must start a lease! For chameleon, you go to reservation, and select leases. This allows you to set up a temporary use of the assets allocated to your team. Before you begin typing start and end dates, check the calendar to verify that the timeframe and assets that you need are available during the time you desire. You can also specify which piece of hardware you require to do your work by selecting “Reserve specific node” and typing in the UUID for that node. This is really useful if you need a specific piece of hardware for your work, or are needing to work in an environment where the assets must be from identical configuration. After setting up your lease, if you have a specific image in mind, you can go to the compute tab, and select images to verify that it is either available or you can link/load the image yourself. By clicking the images tab you are shown all available images. On the top right hand side there is a button labeled “create image”. Clicking that opens up another overlayed window that allows you to enter an image name, description, etc. For image source, you can select either image location, which is a url to the hosted image, or image file, which indicates that the file is to be uploaded to the chameleon glance database. The image location is usually just as efficient as uploading the image file, but it is up to you as to how you desire to proceed. For the purpose of our demo, I will simply indicate the image location and url for expedience. For kernel, which is somewhat different than the image itself, allows you to select the core of your operating system. Help with this would require an entirely different guide. You also have the option of using a ramdisk image which would greatly increase load times. The format is the type of image you are booting. For help with which type of image you are booting, you may need to consult the web. Architecture is not an important item to worry about. For minimum disk and minimum ram, you will need to either consult the web to determine the actual unpacked and/or recommended minimum allocations for the image you are creating or leave these fields blank and discover through trial and error what the actual needs of the image are. Copy data allows the image service to store the image information. By clicking public, you make the image available for the public to use. Clicking protected makes the image unmodifiable to anyone other than the image creator.   

There are several places to begin launching an instance, which includes: under the compute category and under instances there is a launch instances button on the top right hand side, on the images tab you can find a button that says launch image located on the far right hand side associated with each image, and finally under the network and network topology tab where you find a launch instance button on the top right again. After clicking any one of these “Launch Instance” button, another menu will pop up which gives you several fields to select and modify. First, select the availability zone. Unless you have created alternate availability zones, you will only see nova. Availability zones are just a subdivision within a cloud that allows clouds to further segregate where things are operated/stored. If you need help understanding what availability zones can do for you, imagine if you have servers doing the exact same job, but they’re in different areas of your house and so when one loses power because you accidentally turned the hair dryer on, the other branch of the power grid has the other servers still available and useful. It’s a segregation for reliability and redundancy. Same goes for storage. If you want critical data to be stored properly, you should store the data in a replicated fashion as well as redundantly cross different availability zones. After you select your availability zone, select the reservation that you just created. The next item allows you to name your instance. It is best to use a good identifier so the instance won’t get confused with vm-1, vm-2, vm-n … especially if they are set up in a specific fashion on your network. Next is flavor. Chameleon has two infrastructure types, baremetal and openstack kvm. For our purposes, we will use baremetal. Flavors are simply the physical features of the VM you are designing. The hypervisor carves out a selection of virtual CPUs, RAM, and hard drive space for you to use for this specific VM or however many VM’s you are creating with this single instance creation, which is the next section. Instance count is where you can indicate how many instances if you desire to create several instances at once or just a single one. Next is Instance boot source which is where you will find the type of boot. For our case we have only images available. The next item is called, Image Name. This is where we will find our selection of images available. Initially you may only see cirrOS or maybe a few publically listed images. After selecting image, at the top in blue lettering you will see the Access & Security tab as well as others. In Access & Security you will be able to add your ssh key pairs as well as specify which security groups that this/these instances will belong to. Moving to the Networking tab you will see a list of networks available. There are two areas, selected networks and available networks. You select a network to associate with this/these instances by click the blue square at the bottom right hand corner. You will notice the selected item travel from available networks to the selected networks section. The next tab is an option called post creation, which allows you to run various scripts upon the instances boot for specific configurations. After all have been completed, you click the bottom right hand creation button to launch the instance! The instance creation will take a moment or two but you can either watch the loading process or you can go to network topology to visually verify that your work is created the way you desired. 
